[general]
name=OVER Catalog
qgisMinimumVersion=3.34
qgisMaximumVersion=4.99
description=Browse and load the גרסאות לעם (OVER / over.org.il) catalog of Israeli public datasets — spatial layers, tables and live datastore queries — directly into QGIS.
description[he]=דפדוף וטעינה של מאגרי פרויקט גרסאות לעם (over.org.il) — שכבות מרחביות, טבלאות ושאילתות חיות — ישירות ל-QGIS.
about=OVER Catalog browses and loads the "גרסאות לעם" (OVER / over.org.il) version-tracking catalog of Israeli public datasets directly into QGIS: an OVER node in the Browser panel (source type -> organization -> dataset), a global search filter that reveals a dataset in the tree, whole-file GeoJSON/CSV loading, a live datastore layer filtered to the current map view, an advanced WHERE/SQL query builder with a field picker, and access to previous versions.
    "גרסאות לעם" היא מערכת שעוקבת אחרי שינויים במאגרי מידע ממשלתיים וציבוריים בישראל. המערכת החלה במעקב אחרי המאגרים הפתוחים באתר data.gov.il, וכיום היא מנטרת גם מקורות נוספים: מסד הנתונים של הכנסת, אתר הלשכה המרכזית לסטטיסטיקה (הלמ"ס), שכבות המידע המרחבי של GovMap, פרוטוקולי ועדות, מכרזים, החלטות ממשלה ועוד.
version=1.6.2
author=Reuven Kost, Guy Zomer, Shai Sussman
email=reuvenkost@gmail.com
tracker=https://github.com/reuvenAdalya/qgis-plugin-OVER_catalog/issues
repository=https://github.com/reuvenAdalya/qgis-plugin-OVER_catalog
homepage=https://github.com/reuvenAdalya/qgis-plugin-OVER_catalog
tags=israel,open data,government,data.gov.il,govmap,ckan,catalog,versioning,web
category=Web
icon=icon.png
experimental=False
deprecated=False
changelog=1.6.2 - The update tool is renamed to 'update versions for OVER datasets' in its window, progress dialog and menu entry, and opens with a short line explaining what it does: it finds the gap between the versions a project holds and the latest ones, and updates whichever layers you choose.
    1.6.1 - Fixes the row counts reading backwards in the right-to-left update dialog (a cell starting with a digit inherited the dialog's direction and swapped its halves; both numeric cells are now wrapped in a directional isolate). The dialog also states when the run has finished - green when everything applied, amber on partial failure, red when nothing did - and repeats that the project still needs saving.
    1.6.0 - Update a project's OVER layers to the latest version. over.org.il keeps every version of a file in one bucket folder and changes only the file name, so a saved project stays on the version it was saved with and quietly goes stale. A new dialog (Plugins - OVER Catalog) scans the project and shows, per layer, its current version, the latest one, row counts either side, and whether the new version renamed fields; nothing changes until you tick rows and confirm. The same engine ships as a Processing algorithm for models, batch and triggers, with a table report and dry run on by default. Only the data source changes - style, labels and even the layer id are kept - except the layer filter, which QGIS clears on a source change and which is re-applied by hand. Replacing symbology is a separate per-layer choice, off by default.
    1.5.3 - Auxiliary files now follow the layers instead of leading them: a symbology bundle sorted on the name '_symbology', and an underscore sorts below Hebrew, so it appeared above the layers it belongs to. A dataset's children are now ordered by five documented groups - the version marker, the live current-view leaf, the loadable files, the files QGIS cannot open as a layer, and the history last - each still alphabetical within its group.
    1.5.2 - Fixes the position of the 'previous versions' node, which had no explicit sort key and so was ordered by its own name: it sat at the end only for datasets whose title sorts before it, and jumped to the top of the file list for most others. It is now always last.
    1.5.1 - Each dataset now names the version it is serving: the first item under it reads the active version number and the date it was detected, with the full timestamp and row count in the tooltip. Historical versions were already dated under 'previous versions' while the version in use was not. Costs no extra request - the date comes from the same response the file leaves are built from.
    1.5.0 - ESRI .lyr styles are now applied. Some datasets ship no SLD and instead zip an ArcGIS .lyr beside the shapefile it styles; with the SLYR (Community Edition) plugin installed, that .lyr is converted once, cached, and applied to every layer of the dataset - including its labelling, which the SLD bundles do not carry. Conversion targets QML, not QLR, so the .lyr's own data-source path (which often does not point at the shapefile beside it) is irrelevant. Field-name case is reconciled per layer (TERM_NAME vs term_name), otherwise labels would silently come out blank. Without SLYR the layer simply loads unstyled and a one-time message recommends installing it. An SLD still wins when a dataset has both.
    1.4.4 - Fixes "Host requires authentication" on the current-view layer. over.org.il can require authentication for free SQL, so the current-view load, the whole-layer load and the geometry-type probe move to the public /api/tables/{table}/features GeoJSON endpoint (5000 features per page), and the info-table fallback to datastore_search. Only the advanced WHERE query and the free-SQL dialog still use SQL; when the server refuses them the message says so.
    1.4.3 - Documentation refresh: the in-plugin help and the README now describe the three display modes, container files, the symbology behaviour (including that not every layer has a style) and the copy-server-location action.
    1.4.2 - Fixes symbology never being applied to raw file layers. QGIS's own browser provider handles a double-click on a layer item before any plugin sees it, so the plugin was never asked; the layer arrived unstyled. Styling now happens when the layer is added, which also covers drag-and-drop and "Add Selected Layers". A project being reopened keeps its own saved styling.
    1.4.1 - A symbology bundle that carries only GovMap's field dictionary (no SLD — GovMap has no style for every layer) now still applies the Hebrew field captions, instead of being discarded whole. The "loaded without symbology" note is limited to the case that actually warrants it: a style that exists but references an unpublished field.
    1.4.0 - Original GovMap symbology is now applied automatically when a layer loads: the dataset's _symbology bundle (SLD + SVG icons) is fetched, cached under the user profile, its relative icon paths rewritten to absolute ones, and the Hebrew field captions attached as field aliases. A style that filters on a field the data does not publish is skipped rather than applied, so the layer never renders blank. The right-click menu always offers the opposite of the setting (load with/without symbology).
    1.3.0 - Three tree display modes (Settings): "spatial only", "all openable" (default) and "all files"; the last marks non-openable files with a warning. Every file leaf now shows its extension (incl. .geojson). ZIP is treated as a spatial container and expands to its sublayer(s). Datasets whose datastore table has no geometry column and no file resources are reachable via a "load as info table" action. QGIS 4 / Qt6 compatibility (QMetaType-based fields, redirect policy) and qgisMaximumVersion=4.99. Adds Shai Sussman as author.
    1.2.0 - Container files (GPKG / GeoParquet / FlatGeobuf) are now expandable in the tree and list their sublayers on demand; each sublayer loads on its own. GeoParquet and FlatGeobuf are recognized as vector formats.
    1.1.0 - Catalog now also includes file-only datasets (no datastore table) from /api/v1 — the heavy layers (100k+ rows, often GPKG) that lack an idx table. Route A now loads GPKG/KML/GML (not just GeoJSON) with the correct GDAL driver. New "show all files" setting lists non-openable resources (symbology zip, PDF, XML...) as download/open-in-browser links.
    1.0.2 - The "current view" datastore item in the Browser now shows the correct geometry-type icon (point / line / polygon) instead of always a point; the type is sampled once per dataset and cached.
    1.0.1 - Resolve Bandit security scan findings: annotate the safe (read-only, quoted-identifier) SQL construction, and log instead of silently passing in two exception handlers. No functional change.
    1.0.0 - First public release: Browser tree (source type / organization / dataset), Locator reveal, GeoJSON/CSV loading, live "current view" datastore layer, advanced WHERE and full-SQL query, previous versions, spatial-only default filter and settings.
